GIR

EXPLANATORY NOTE

RULE 5 (a)
(Cases, boxes and similar containers)

(I) This Rule shall be taken to cover only those containers which :
 (1) are specially shaped or fitted to contain a specific article or set of articles, i.e., they
 are designed specifically to accommodate the article for which they are intended.
 Some containers are shaped in the form of the article they contain;
 (2) are suitable for long-term use, i.e., they are designed to have a durability
 comparable to that of the articles for which they are intended. These containers also
 serve to protect the article when not in use (during transport or storage, for
 example). These criteria enable them to be distinguished from simple packings;
 (3) are presented with the articles for which they are intended, whether or not the
 articles are packed separately for convenience of transport. Presented separately the
 containers are classified in their appropriate headings;
 (4) are of a kind normally sold with such articles; and
 (5) do not give the whole its essential character.

(II) Examples of containers, presented with the articles for which they are intended, which are
 to be classified by reference to this Rule are :
 (1) Jewellery boxes and cases (heading 71.13);
 (2) Electric shaver cases (heading 85.10);
 (3) Binocular cases, telescope cases (heading 90.05);
 (4) Musical instrument cases, boxes and bags (e.g., heading 92.02);
 (5) Gun cases (e.g., heading 93.03).

(III) Examples of containers not covered by this Rule are containers such as a silver caddy
 containing tea, or an ornamental ceramic bowl containing sweets.

RULE 5 (b)
(Packing materials and packing containers)

(IV) This Rule governs the classification of packing materials and packing containers of a kind
 normally used for packing the goods to which they relate. However, this provision is not
 binding when such packing materials or packing containers are clearly suitable for
 repetitive use, for example, certain metal drums or containers of iron or steel for
 compressed or liquefied gas.

(V) This Rule is subject to Rule 5 (a) and, therefore, the classification of cases, boxes and
 similar containers of the kind mentioned in Rule 5 (a) shall be determined by the
 application of that Rule.

GIR-8