GIR

RULE 2

(a) Any reference in a heading to an article shall be taken to include a reference to that
article incomplete or unfinished, provided that, as presented, the incomplete or
unfinished article has the essential character of the complete or finished article. It
shall also be taken to include a reference to that article complete or finished (or
falling to be classified as complete or finished by virtue of this rule), presented
unassembled or disassembled.

(b) Any reference in a heading to a material or substance shall be taken to include a
reference to mixtures or combinations of that material or substance with other
materials or substances. Any reference to goods of a given material or substance
shall be taken to include a reference to goods consisting wholly or partly of such
material or substance. The classification of goods consisting of more than one
material or substance shall be according to the principles of Rule 3.

EXPLANATORY NOTE

RULE 2 (a)
(Incomplete or unfinished articles)

(I) The first part of Rule 2 (a) extends the scope of any heading which refers to a particular
article to cover not only the complete article but also that article incomplete or unfinished,
provided that, as presented, it has the essential character of the complete or finished
article.

(II) The provisions of this Rule also apply to blanks unless these are specified in a particular
heading. The term “blank” means an article, not ready for direct use, having the
approximate shape or outline of the finished article or part, and which can only be used,
other than in exceptional cases, for completion into the finished article or part (e.g., bottle
preforms of plastics being intermediate products having tubular shape, with one closed
end and one open end threaded to secure a screw type closure, the portion below the
threaded end being intended to be expanded to a desired size and shape).

Semi-manufactures not yet having the essential shape of the finished articles (such as is
generally the case with bars, discs, tubes, etc.) are not regarded as “blanks”.

(III) In view of the scope of the headings of Sections I to VI, this part of the Rules does not
normally apply to goods of these Sections.

(IV) Several cases covered by the Rule are cited in the General Explanatory Notes to Sections
or Chapters (e.g., Section XVI, and Chapters 61, 62, 86, 87 and 90).

RULE 2 (a)
(Articles presented unassembled or disassembled)

(V) The second part of Rule 2 (a) provides that complete or finished articles presented
unassembled or disassembled are to be classified in the same heading as the assembled
article. When goods are so presented, it is usually for reasons such as requirements or
convenience of packing, handling or transport.

(VI) This Rule also applies to incomplete or unfinished articles presented unassembled or
disassembled provided that they are to be treated as complete or finished articles by virtue
of the first part of this Rule.

GIR-2