GIR

(XI) This Rule does not apply to goods consisting of separately packed constituents put up
together, whether or not in a common packing, in fixed proportions for the industrial
manufacture of, for example, beverages.

RULE 3 (c)

(XII) When goods cannot be classified by reference to Rule 3 (a) or 3 (b), they are to be
classified in the heading which occurs last in numerical order among those which equally
merit consideration in determining their classification.

RULE 4

Goods which cannot be classified in accordance with the above Rules shall be classified
under the heading appropriate to the goods to which they are most akin.

EXPLANATORY NOTE

(I) This Rule relates to goods which cannot be classified in accordance with Rules 1 to 3. It
provides that such goods shall be classified under the heading appropriate to the goods to
which they are most akin.

(II) In classifying in accordance with Rule 4, it is necessary to compare the presented goods
with similar goods in order to determine the goods to which the presented goods are most
akin. The presented goods are classified in the same heading as the similar goods to
which they are most akin.

(III) Kinship can, of course, depend on many factors, such as description, character, purpose.

RULE 5

In addition to the foregoing provisions, the following Rules shall apply in respect of the
goods referred to therein :

(a) Camera cases, musical instrument cases, gun cases, drawing instrument cases,
necklace cases and similar containers, specially shaped or fitted to contain a specific
article or set of articles, suitable for long-term use and presented with the articles
for which they are intended, shall be classified with such articles when of a kind
normally sold therewith. This Rule does not, however, apply to containers which
give the whole its essential character;

(b) Subject to the provisions of Rule 5 (a) above, packing materials and packing
containers presented with the goods therein shall be classified with the goods if they
are of a kind normally used for packing such goods. However, this provision is not
binding when such packing materials or packing containers are clearly suitable for
repetitive use.

GIR-7