GIR

RULE 6

For legal purposes, the classification of goods in the subheadings of a heading shall be
determined according to the terms of those subheadings and any related Subheading Notes
and mutatis mutandis, to the above Rules, on the understanding that only subheadings at the
same level are comparable. For the purposes of this Rule the relative Section and Chapter
Notes also apply, unless the context otherwise requires.

EXPLANATORY NOTE

(I) Rules 1 to 5 above govern, mutatis mutandis, classification at subheading levels within
the same heading.

(II) For the purposes of Rule 6, the following expressions have the meanings hereby assigned
to them :

(a) “subheadings at the same level” : one-dash subheadings (level 1) or two-dash
subheadings (level 2).

Thus, when considering the relative merits of two or more one-dash subheadings
within a single heading in the context of Rule 3 (a), their specificity or kinship in
relation to a given article is to be assessed solely on the basis of the texts of the
competing one-dash subheadings. When the one-dash subheading that is most
specific has been chosen and when that subheading is itself subdivided, then, and
only then, shall the texts of the two-dash subheadings be taken into consideration
for determining which two-dash subheading should be selected.

(b) “unless the context otherwise requires” : except where Section or Chapter Notes
are incompatible with subheading texts or Subheading Notes.

This occurs, for example, in Chapter 71 where the scope assigned to the term
“platinum” in Chapter Note 4 (B) differs from that assigned to “platinum” in
Subheading Note 2. For the purpose of interpreting subheadings 7110.11 and
7110.19, therefore, Subheading Note 2 applies and Chapter Note 4 (B) is to be
disregarded.

(III) The scope of a two-dash subheading shall not extend beyond that of the one-dash
subheading to which the two-dash subheading belongs; and the scope of a one-dash
subheading shall not extend beyond that of the heading to which the one-dash subheading
belongs.

* * *

GIR-9