GIR

(b) Mixtures, composite goods consisting of different materials or made up of different
 components, and goods put up in sets for retail sale, which cannot be classified by
 reference to 3 (a), shall be classified as if they consisted of the material or component
 which gives them their essential character, insofar as this criterion is applicable.

(c) When goods cannot be classified by reference to 3 (a) or 3 (b), they shall be classified
 under the heading which occurs last in numerical order among those which equally
 merit consideration.

EXPLANATORY NOTE

(I) This Rule provides three methods of classifying goods which, prima facie, fall under two
 or more headings, either under the terms of Rule 2 (b) or for any other reason. These
 methods operate in the order in which they are set out in the Rule. Thus Rule 3 (b)
 operates only if Rule 3 (a) fails in classification, and if both Rules 3 (a) and (b) fail,
 Rule 3 (c) will apply. The order of priority is therefore (a) specific description;
 (b) essential character; (c) heading which occurs last in numerical order.

(II) The Rule can only take effect provided the terms of headings or Section or Chapter
 Notes do not otherwise require. For instance, Note 5 (B) to Chapter 97 requires that
 goods covered both by the description in one of the headings 97.01 to 97.05 and by the
 description in heading 97.06 shall be classified in one of the former headings. Such goods
 are to be classified according to Note 5 (B) to Chapter 97 and not according to this Rule.

RULE 3 (a)

(III) The first method of classification is provided in Rule 3 (a), under which the heading
 which provides the most specific description of the goods is to be preferred to a heading
 which provides a more general description.

(IV) It is not practicable to lay down hard and fast rules by which to determine whether one
 heading more specifically describes the goods than another, but in general it may be said
 that :

 (a) A description by name is more specific than a description by class (e.g., shavers
 and hair clippers, with self-contained electric motor, are classified in heading 85.10
 and not in heading 84.67 as tools for working in the hand with self-contained
 electric motor or in heading 85.09 as electro-mechanical domestic appliances with
 self-contained electric motor).

 (b) If the goods answer to a description which more clearly identifies them, that
 description is more specific than one where identification is less complete.

 Examples of the latter category of goods are :

 (1) Tufted textile carpets, identifiable for use in motor cars, which are to be
 classified not as accessories of motor cars in heading 87.08 but in
 heading 57.03, where they are more specifically described as carpets.

GIR-4