GIR

GENERAL RULES FOR THE INTERPRETATION
OF THE HARMONIZED SYSTEM

Classification of goods in the nomenclature shall be governed by the following
principles :

RULE 1

The titles of Sections, Chapters and sub-Chapters are provided for ease of reference only;
for legal purposes, classification shall be determined according to the terms of the headings
and any relative Section or Chapter Notes and, provided such headings or Notes do not
otherwise require, according to the following provisions.

EXPLANATORY NOTE

(I) The Nomenclature sets out in systematic form the goods handled in international trade. It
groups these goods in Sections, Chapters and sub-Chapters which have been given titles
indicating as concisely as possible the categories or types of goods they cover. In many
cases, however, the variety and number of goods classified in a Section or Chapter are
such that it is impossible to cover them all or to cite them specifically in the titles.

(II) Rule 1 begins therefore by establishing that the titles are provided “for ease of reference
only”. They accordingly have no legal bearing on classification.

(III) The second part of this Rule provides that classification shall be determined :

(a) according to the terms of the headings and any relative Section or Chapter Notes,
and

(b) where appropriate, provided the headings or Notes do not otherwise require,
according to the provisions of Rules 2, 3, 4, and 5.

(IV) Provision (III) (a) is self-evident, and many goods are classified in the Nomenclature
without recourse to any further consideration of the Interpretative Rules (e.g., live horses
(heading 01.01), pharmaceutical goods specified in Note 4 to Chapter 30
(heading 30.06)).

(V) In provision (III) (b) :

(a) The expression “provided such headings or Notes do not otherwise require” is
intended to make it quite clear that the terms of the headings and any relative
Section or Chapter Notes are paramount, i.e., they are the first consideration in
determining classification. For example, in Chapter 31, the Notes provide that
certain headings relate only to particular goods. Consequently those headings
cannot be extended to include goods which otherwise might fall there by reason of
the operation of Rule 2 (b).

(b) The reference to Rule 2 in the expression “according to the provisions of Rules 2,
3, 4 and 5” means that :

(1) goods presented incomplete or unfinished (e.g., a bicycle without saddle and
tyres), and

(2) goods presented unassembled or disassembled (e.g., a bicycle, unassembled or
disassembled, all components being presented together) whose components
could individually be classified in their own right (e.g., tyres, inner tubes) or
as “parts” of those goods,

are to be classified as if they were those goods in a complete or finished state,
provided the terms of Rule 2 (a) are satisfied and the headings or Notes do not
otherwise require.

GIR-1