GIR

(VII) For the purposes of this Rule, “articles presented unassembled or disassembled” means
articles the components of which are to be assembled either by means of fixing devices
(screws, nuts, bolts, etc.) or by riveting or welding, for example, provided only assembly
operations are involved.

No account is to be taken in that regard of the complexity of the assembly method.
However, the components shall not be subjected to any further working operation for
completion into the finished state.

Unassembled components of an article which are in excess of the number required for
that article when complete are to be classified separately.

(VIII) Cases covered by this Rule are cited in the General Explanatory Notes to Sections or
Chapters (e.g., Section XVI, and Chapters 44, 86, 87 and 89).

(IX) In view of the scope of the headings of Sections I to VI, this part of the Rule does not
normally apply to goods of these Sections.

RULE 2 (b)
(Mixtures and combinations of materials or substances)

(X) Rule 2 (b) concerns mixtures and combinations of materials or substances, and goods
consisting of two or more materials or substances. The headings to which it refers are
headings in which there is a reference to a material or substance (e.g., heading 05.07 -
ivory), and headings in which there is a reference to goods of a given material or
substance (e.g., heading 45.03 - articles of natural cork). It will be noted that the Rule
applies only if the headings or the Section or Chapter Notes do not otherwise require
(e.g., heading 15.03 - lard oil, not ... mixed).

Mixtures being preparations described as such in a Section or Chapter Note or in a
heading text are to be classified under the provisions of Rule 1.

(XI) The effect of the Rule is to extend any heading referring to a material or substance to
include mixtures or combinations of that material or substance with other materials or
substances. The effect of the Rule is also to extend any heading referring to goods of a
given material or substance to include goods consisting partly of that material or
substance.

(XII) It does not, however, widen the heading so as to cover goods which cannot be regarded,
as required under Rule 1, as answering the description in the heading; this occurs where
the addition of another material or substance deprives the goods of the character of goods
of the kind mentioned in the heading.

(XIII) As a consequence of this Rule, mixtures and combinations of materials or substances, and
goods consisting of more than one material or substance, if prima facie classifiable under
two or more headings, must therefore be classified according to the principles of Rule 3.

RULE 3

When by application of Rule 2 (b) or for any other reason, goods are prima facie,
classifiable under two or more headings, classification shall be effected as follows:

(a) The heading which provides the most specific description shall be preferred to
headings providing a more general description. However, when two or more
headings each refer to part only of the materials or substances contained in mixed or
composite goods or to part only of the items in a set put up for retail sale, those
headings are to be regarded as equally specific in relation to those goods, even if one
of them gives a more complete or precise description of the goods.

GIR-3